
# TMA 01, question 2

**Name**: [Enter your name here]
    
**PI**: [Enter your student id here]

This TMA question gives you the opportunity to demonstrate your mastery of the techniques in carrying out a small-scale data analysis. In the TMA, you will apply some of the ideas that you've seen in the module so far.

Specifically, this question requires you to obtain and clean two datasets, combine and reshape them, and graphically present the cleaned data. All the techniques required to answer this question can be found in Parts 2-5, and are illustrated in the associated notebooks.

In question 1, you started looking at the Devon manholes dataset. In this question, you are required to combine some of the information from this dataset with some data from the Devon County Council Property Assets dataset, which you can download from this site:

    https://data.gov.uk/dataset/dcc-property-assets



For this question, you are asked to produce a graphical representation of the number of manhole covers, and the number of schools, in each parish in Devon.

To do this, you must produce a pandas dataframe, so that for each parish in Devon, the number of manhole covers is listed, and the number of schools in the parish. The final dataframe should look something like this:



||Parish|Number_of_manhole_covers|Number_of_schools|
|---|---|---|---|
|**0**|Sourton CP | 45 | 12 |
|**1**|Northam CP | 23 | 1 |
|$\vdots$ | $\vdots$ | $\vdots$ | $\vdots$ |


(although note that the figures 45, 12, 23 and 1 are just for illustration; they are not necessarily the correct values for the question).


You should then construct a plot showing the number of manhole covers and the number of schools for each parish, and give an explanation of what you believe the plot shows.

This question requires that you complete a number of tasks:

1. You must obtain the datasets from the two sites. This task uses the techniques described in Part 2.

2. You need to examine the datasets. You should consider questions such as how missing data is handled, whether there is any dirtiness or ambiguity in the data, and any differences in how data is represented in the two datasets. This task uses the techniques described in Part 3, section 2.

3. You will need to capture the data in a dataframe in the form described above. This task uses the techniques described in Part 3, section 3 and Part 4.

4. Finally, you should select a visualisation method for the data in the dataset, and present a plot of the data, with a description of how you think it should be interpreted. This task uses the techniques described in Part 5.


It is crucial for this question to bear in mind that at each stage, you must describe what you have done in sufficient detail that someone could replicate your work. This means that you must:

* explain what any code that you have written does, and execute it in the body of your submitted notebook,

* where you have used tools that are not accessed via python or the Notebooks (such as OpenRefine), you should include some screenshots to show what you did, and to help the marker understand your thinking,

* clearly explain any assumptions or simplifications that you have made about the data, and

* interpret your final results in the context of these assumptions and simplifications.


Some guidance on presentation:

* You must present your answer in this notebook.
    
* Do not put too much text or code into each notebook cell. Each cell should contain one or two paragraphs at most, or around ten lines of python.

* Ensure that in your code, you use meaningful variable names.

* You should have a specific cell whose return value is the dataframe described above.

* You should have a specific cell which plots the data in the dataframe.

### 40 marks
