
# TMA 01, question 1

**Name**: [Pablo Toledo]
    
**PI**: [C4451553]

This TMA question will get you applying some of the ideas that you've seen in the module so far.

## Part a)


At:

https://data.gov.uk/dataset/manholes-in-devon
    
is a list of the manhole covers in the English county of Devon. The entire dataset is available for download in different formats, including as CSV and as JSON.

Visit the website via the above link, read the description of the data and then answer the following questions.

**i)** Look at the website descriptions and metadata.

1. Is the provenance of the data made clear?

2. Is it clear when the data was last updated? 

3. What can you infer from your answers to these questions about the completeness and reliability of the data? (Remember to describe any evidence from the website you use in your answer.)

4. What are the rights granted to you to make use of the content of the website? How is this presented?

### 5 marks

1. The provenance of the manhole dataset is not made explicit on the data.gov.uk website, or in the data itself. The website states the publisher as Devon County Council, and the publication date as 14/07/2015. However, we are given no further details. For instance, was the data collected by Devon County Council, or by a third party? What methods/instruments were used in collecting this data? Is this dataset a combination of other datasets? 

2. We are given a publication date of 14/07/2015, but cannot tell if the dataset has been updated since. In the absence of any further information, it would be reasonable to assume it hasn't.

3. Given we're unsure of the exact provenance of the dataset, it's hard to be sure of the completeness and reliability of the data. On quick inspection of the dataset there do seem to be a number of missing values (street names, material types etc.). Also, as we don't believe the data has been updated since publication, we have to be cautious about any conclusions we might draw from this dataset as there may be changes in trends since July 2015 which we are unable to see.

4. This dataset is published under the Open Government license, to which a link is provided on the website. This license grants permission for anyone to 'copy, publish, distribute and transmit the Information; adapt the Information; exploit the Information commercially and non-commercially for example, by combining it with other Information, or by including it in your own product or application.'. A key condition of the license is about protecting personal data. So long as this dataset is used by itself, or in combination with data which has already been published (under the FOI2000 or otherwise), it is covered under the Open Government license. However, the license license makes clear that it does not cover the publication of personal data (i.e. any data covered by the DPA98) or data which has not been previously published. Another condition that the information source (in this case Devon County Council) is always acknowledged.

## Part b)

The National Renal Data Set is intended to provide a resource for improving kidney care in patients. You can find the website at:

http://www.hscic.gov.uk/article/2117/National-Renal-Data-Set

Visit the website, and explore what the site tells you this data. 

Answer the following questions, giving brief explanations of your answers, supported by evidence from the website. As well as the particular page linked above, you should also look at other pages on the same site to help answer these questions. Some questions may have more than one possible answer.

1. Who do you think is the intended audience for this website?

1. What purpose does this website serve? Is it dissemination, archival or curatorial or something else?

1. How have the site designers handled issues of data provenance, authority and trust with respect to the data and information it hosts?

1. How have the site designers encouraged exploratory engagement with the content, and is this tailored to producing author-driven or reader-driven data stories?

1. What requirements would be placed on you if you were to use data extracted from this site in your research or as the basis of a publication or news article?

### 10 marks

1. The NHS Digital website's target audience is not members of the public, but Health and Social Care professionals such as those working for the NHS,  but also health care commissioners, medical or public health researchers, or  those who run other health-related public services. The NRD webpage is targeted at professionals working in kidney-related fields. These might be doctors, clinicians, organ transplant services or suppliers of dialysis machines. 

2. NHS Digital's main purpose is the dissemination of data relating to healthcare and public health to support decision-making, service delivery and medical research. The website provides public access to a vast array of datasets relating to all aspects of medicine, healthcare and public health (see http://content.digital.nhs.uk/searchcatalogue). Interested parties can also make a request for bespoke data-extracts from their datasets (http://content.digital.nhs.uk/dars). 

The National Renal Data Set webpage does not actually make any data available for download. Its purpose is to explain the rationale behind the NRD, and document and publish a standard approach to data collection,  collation and storage across different organisations who generate relevant data. This facilicates data sharing and research. As stated on the webpage, the NRD is designed to 'be used by kidney care services to assess their achievement of the quality standards and to improve kidney care for patients'. Therefore, the primary role of the NRD project (and of this webpage) is one of data curation through documenting the type and manner in which renal data is collected, what the data means, how it is stored and how it can be accessed and used.

3. The NRD webpage provides a high level of documentation regarding the NRD project and the 'business requirements' for the projct, as well as the 'NRD Human Behavioural, Organisation and Technical Guidance' document which outlines what data is collected in the NRD, what it means, and how it can be accessed and used. Additionally the webpage details the organisations with whom the NRD was developed in partnership with, and that the NRD 'extends the existing collections of the UK Renal Registry, UK Transplant and the British Association of Paediatric Nephrologists'. Thus we have a strong provenance for the data, although because the NRD consists of data from various sources, we may not be able to tell exactly which organisation supplied which data.

In terms of trust as to the accuracy of the data, the webpage provides a  'Data set Conformance Checklist' document, which adds confidence as to the accuracy and completeness of the data which is collected in the NRD, though of course we have to trust that the data was collected and input accurately in the first instance.

Other webpages on NHS Digital which make datasets available for download (rather than just documenting and curating a dataset) also appear to have a good level of documentation which allows us to establish data provenance, scope, accuracy and completeness. E.g.http://content.digital.nhs.uk/media/10048/FAQs-Practice-Level-Prescribingpdf/pdf/FAQs_Practice_Level_Prescribing.pdf).

4. NHS Digital is very much a provider of data for research and decision-making, rather than a provider of data analyses and interpretations (author-driven data-stories). They do also provide some consultancy and training services, but otherwise appear to carry no 'agenda' with regards the data they provide. Based on the sample of datasets I saw available on their site, the data appears to be trustworthy, of good provenance, well documented and easily accessible in well-recognized formats (such as CSV and json). The data appears adequately transformed and cleansed, but has undergone no further processing or analysis, leaving the reader free explore the data and arrive at their own conclusinos ('reader-driven data stories').

5. The requirements placed on someone making use of data for research or publication would depend very much on the data used in question. Some data is available under the Open Data initiative, and covered under the FOI2000 act (see http://content.digital.nhs.uk/transparency). Other data sets have to be requested through the DAR service, and have more restrictive licensing and conditions of use (see 'How to access the data' and 'How does DARS protect data?', http://content.digital.nhs.uk/dars). Ultimately, once data is acquired, processed, or combined with other datasets, the onus is then on you as the 'data controller' to ensure that the resulting data does not any personal data to be revealed, thereby breaching the DPA98. 

